Activision has provided the first official look at DMZ, Call of Duty Warzone 2’s “narrative-focused extraction mode”.

Developer Infinity Ward invited a number of content creators to its Los Angeles studio to play and stream the game on Wednesday.

In the video below, popular Call of Duty YouTube channel MrDalekJD commentates over various DMZ streams from the event.

Notice: To display this embed please allow the use of Functional Cookies in Cookie Preferences.

Warzone 2 and its DMZ mode will launch alongside Modern Warfare 2’s first season of live content on November 16 at 10am PT / 1pm ET / 6pm GMT.

“DMZ is an open-world, narrative-focused extraction mode where Operator squads have free rein to complete faction-based missions, take on additional side objectives, engage with enemy Operators or AI combatants, and search for valuable items, all while fighting to survive toward exfiltration,” Activision said on Wednesday, ahead of a more detailed overview planned for closer to launch.

The publisher also detailed a range of content coming to Modern Warfare 2 and Warzone 2 Season 1.

#MyWarzoneLegacy | Call of Duty: Warzone

It addition to a new battle royale experience, it will include reimagined multiplayer maps, a new Special Ops mission, the first three-player Raid, and a football-themed event starring Leo Messi, Neymar and Paul Pogba.

Activision confirmed on Monday that it intends to deliver “the next full premium release” in the Call of Duty series in 2023.

According to Bloomberg journalist Jason Schreier, this will come in the form of a major Modern Warfare 2 expansion developed by Sledgehammer Games.

Further reading Modern Warfare 2 and Warzone 2 Season 1 detailed, including new DMZ mode Football stars Paul Pogba, Neymar and Leo Messi will feature in the Modern Warfare FC event

It’s been claimed that it will include campaign content and could also feature a ‘greatest hits’ pack containing multiplayer maps from a variety of classic Call of Duty games to celebrate the franchise’s 20th anniversary.

Modern Warfare 2 is the fasting-selling entry in the long-running series, having crossed the $1 billion sales mark in 10 days.