HOUSTON – Several Houston-area school districts have announced they will cancel classes on Monday after the Houston Astros secured a World Series victory on Saturday night.

View the list below:

Houston Independent School District

Houston Independent School District announced on Sunday that all district offices will be closed and classes will not be held on Monday, Nov. 7.

This comes after the Astros beat the Philadelphia Phillies 4-1 in Saturday night’s Game 6. The team won their second World Series title in franchise history.

Superintendent Millard House II said in a memo to the HISD community that the closure will allow all students, staff, and their families to attend the victory parade, which is scheduled for Monday.

“It’s been an incredible season, and we want to celebrate our national champions,” he wrote in the memo. “We are proud to have the Houston Astros organization as a partner in education and in our schools. Let’s show our support for the home team. Go Astros!”

Aldine Independent School District

Aldine ISD also announced they will cancel classes on Monday.

Alief Independent School District

Alief ISD schools and offices will be closed Monday November, 7, to allow our families to celebrate the Houston Astros World Series victory. Tuesday November 8 is a campus-based holiday. Students will return to school Wednesday, November 9 when normal school operations resume.

Fort Bend Independent School District

Fort Bend ISD announced they will be closed Monday, Nov. 7 due to the Astros victory parade.

“We are extremely proud of our hometown team, their manager Dusty Baker, and the district fully supports our students, staff and families who wish to attend the parade to recognize the Astros’ hard work and amazing achievement this season,” the district said in a memo to students, parents, and staff.

The district said all after-school activities will continue as scheduled on Monday. Extended Day programs will not be held.

Lamar Consolidated Independent School District

In a letter to parents and students Sunday, Lamar CISD officials said all school and offices will be closed on Monday.

All after school activities and events are scheduled as planned. School will resume Nov. 8.

YES Prep Public Schools

YES Prep Public Schools will cancel classes Monday due to the World Series festivities, according to officials in a tweet.

Partnership schools in Aldine and Spring Branch ISD should refer to their respected school districts.

YES Prep families: Due to the World Series baseball festivities, YES Prep will be closed Mon, Nov 7. After-school activities have also been canceled. *Partnership campuses should refer to Aldine and Spring Branch school district updates. Congratulations to the Houston Astros! pic.twitter.com/yNkOWZFAuk — YES Prep Public Schools (@YESPrep) November 6, 2022

COLLEGES

Houston Community College

“In recognition of our Houston Astros, HCC will close Monday, November 7 to allow all students, faculty, and staff to join in the celebratory activities.” #WeAreHCC #WorldSeries

University of Houston

“It’s time to celebrate, Houston!

The University of Houston will close on November 7 and resume normal operations and classes at 5 p.m. We want to extend our congratulations to the Houston Astros for an incredible season and historic victory!

This also applies to our University of Houston at Sugar Land and University of Houston at Katy locations.”

University of St. Thomas

“UST Alert: University of St. Thomas will be closed and classes canceled on Monday, Nov. 7, so that Celts have the option to join the Astros World Series victory parade celebration. Classes will resume on Tuesday, Nov. 8. Stay safe.”

Texas Southern University

“Texas Southern University congratulates the Houston Astros on being 2022 World Series Champions!As the city of Houston and ‘Stros fans all over unite to celebrate at tomorrow’s victory parade downtown, TSU and campus operations will be closed Monday, November 7, to allow our students, faculty and staff the opportunity show their support.The Texas Southern University family is proud of the Astros’ outstanding play on the field and for their commitment to the community off the field, exemplified through TSU’s partnership with the Astros Foundation.Go Tigers…and Go Astros!”

Details of the parade have not been announced as of this writing, however, the City of Houston will hold a news conference regarding the parade later Sunday at 2 p.m.

KPRC 2 will broadcast the news conference here.