Novak Djokovic failed to secure his seventh Paris Masters crown on Sunday. Novak experienced a tight 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 loss to the 19-year-old Holger Rune in two hours and 33 minutes, missing his chances and staying on 38 Masters 1000 shields.

Djokovic had a 3-1, 40-30 lead in the final set before Rune prolonged that fifth game and broke back to stay in contention. The young gun broke Novak in game 11 and fended off six break points while serving for the title at 6-5 to seal the deal in style and write history books.

Djokovic was pleased with his week, reaching the final and battling for the trophy until the end. Also, he mentioned the semi-final clash with Stefanos Tsitsipas, where he stood three points away from defeat in the decisive tie break.

Novak prevailed 6-2, 3-6, 7-6 in two hours and 19 minutes, beating Stefanos for the eighth time in a row. Djokovic claimed 19 points more than Tsitsipas and held everything under control behind the initial shot in sets one and three.

Stefanos broke Novak twice from as many chances and defended four out of six break points to remain competitive. Djokovic fired 36 winners and 22 unforced errors, outplaying the rival from the baseline and controlling the shortest and more advanced exchanges for a place in his 56th Masters 1000 final.

They made a strong start in service games before Djokovic played a couple of fantastic points to grab a break and open a 4-2 gap. Novak fired an ace in game seven for a hold at love, with Stefanos serving to stay in the set.

Novak Djokovic played tight matches against Stefanos Tsitsipas and Holger Rune.

The Greek wasted a game point and netted an easy forehand to hand it to the Serb 6-2 in 31 minutes. Djokovic played two loose service games in the second set and lost it 6-3.

He sprayed a forehand error in game five to fall 3-2 behind before Tsitsipas produced fine holds in games six and eight for 5-3. Novak rushed a forehand error in game nine to drop serve for the second time and allow his opponent to force a decider.

Returning to his best, Djokovic barely lost a point behind the initial shot in the third set and patiently waited for a chance on the return. Stefanos played against break points in games three and nine, surviving them and introducing a tie break.

The Greek fired a forehand crosscourt winner to open a 4-3 gap before the Serb grabbed two return points for 5-4. Novak clinched the third straight point after Stefanos' careless volley and two match points. The 21-time Major winner converted the first at 6-4 with a smash winner for a place in the title clash.

"It was an exciting match. I had my chances, breaking in the final set and leading 30-0 in the next one on my serve. Holger was brave and went for his shots. I needed to be more active with my feet, making uncharacteristic mistakes on break chances.

It is what it is; you win some and lose some. I could have lost to Tsitsipas yesterday, but I won that one. Today I did not, and it's fine; it was still a very good week," Novak Djokovic said.