Justin Fields is undoubtedly among the best quarterbacks in the NFL today. As the regular season progresses, many fantasy football managers are in tricky situations as four teams will have byes in Week 10. In the preceding nine weeks, several athletes have failed to live up to expectations or have suffered season-ending injuries.

One player who has been unaffected by any injuries this season is Chicago Bears QB Justin Fields. Fields is in his top form and is helping fantasy managers score good fantasy points.

If you have the quarterback on your roster, then you might have a good fantasy football team. But do you have an intelligent name that can make other players jealous? Well, if you haven't, we are here to help you.

Here are the 40 best Justin Fields-inspired fantasy football names:

Justin Time

Leave it all on the Fields

Fields Day

Soldier Fields

Fields Trip

Fields of Dreams

Justin Fields Forever

Outstanding in His Fields

I Fields Good

Fields So Good

Chicago Fields

Fields General

Fields Da Choice

Cover the Fields

Fields Like Making Love

Treasury Fields

Level Playing Fields

The Bear King

Out-Fields

Strawberry Fields Forever

Fields Artillery

King of the Fields

Love Is A BattleFields

BattleFields Tested

Hooked On A Fields-ing

Playing the Fields

Justin Do It!

Taking The Fields

Marshall Fields

Truth and Justin

Lapping the Fields

Field Commander

Justin Case

This Justin

Lead The Fields

Reverse Fields

Fields to Pressure

Just Win

The Killing Fields

Justin and the Knights of Valor

You may also like - 40 Best Tyreek Hill-inspired fantasy football team names to try out in 2022

Justin Fields Week 10 fantasy outlook

Miami Dolphins v Chicago Bears

Fields has established himself as one of the better quarterbacks in the league currently. By Week 8, he had recorded 1,199 passing yards, seven touchdowns, and six interceptions. He has a pass completion percentage of 58.5 and hasn't missed a single game.

The Bears recently added Chase Claypool at the trade deadline, which will add value to Fields' passing game performance. Fields' running game has also been impressive. In the last four games, he's recorded 408 rushing yards in 49 attempts and scored three rushing touchdowns.

In Week 10, the Bears will face the Detroit Lions and you can expect a groundbreaking performance from Fields.

Why do NFL players wear fanny packs? Find out here

Poll : 0 votes