Erik ten Hag will have been alarmed by how Manchester United performed without Bruno Fernandes in the damning 3-1 defeat at Aston Villa, where they produced very little of note.

United also went to Villa Park on Sunday without Raphael Varane, Antony and Jadon Sancho, but it was the unavailability of the suspended Fernandes — missing his first Premier League game since March — that was most keenly felt at a ground where he has scored four goals and provided one assist in his previous three visits.

Advertisement

In his place, Ten Hag fielded Donny van de Beek in the No 10 role, with Marcus Rashford on the right and Alejandro Garnacho on the left.

A midfield pivot of Christian Eriksen and Casemiro was tasked with stopping the flow of Villa attacks, as well as delivering crosses for Cristiano Ronaldo up front.

In the end, though, United were found lacking as they lost a league game at Villa for the first time since then-Match Of The Day pundit Alan Hansen’s soon to be infamous “You can’t win anything with kids” dismissal of the fresh-faced Nevilles, Beckham, Scholes and the rest of the Class of ’92 in August 1995.

They were unable to deal with a Villa side quickly restructured last week by new head coach Unai Emery and struggled to create chances without Fernandes in their ranks.

Playing in a manner not dissimilar to how Emery’s Villarreal did last season, Villa spent the first half in a well-organised 4-4-2 that would turn into a 3-5-2 whenever United crossed halfway.

A short goal-kick routine would see keeper Emiliano Martinez pass out to centre-back Tyrone Mings, who would then feed playmaker Emi Buendia and he would drop off from his left-wing position and drag Diogo Dalot out of position. An overlapping Lucas Digne would run into the available space from left-back — causing headaches for United’s other defenders.

On the opposite side, Leon Bailey turned Luke Shaw inside out — making the most of the United left-back’s early booking and frequently forcing him into difficult situations.

United manager Erik ten Hag tries to get his message across (Photo: Stu Forster/Getty Images)

On top of this, Eriksen’s attempts to join Van de Beek and United’s other attackers left extra space in central midfield for Jacob Ramsey to push up and join Ollie Watkins in attack.

United were 2-0 down after only 11 minutes as a result of Emery’s side exploiting those weaknesses in their system and set=up. Then Villa’s third — scored early in the second half — came about from an unforced United error, as Casemiro mistimed a headed pass from Lisandro Martinez.

Advertisement

“When you start the first half and second half (badly) you get beaten,” Ten Hag said. “When you start the game you always have the attitude — that was one of our best standards, we are front-foot and ready to play.

“Today, we were not (with it) from the start. We didn’t let them run, especially in the start of the game, and we didn’t follow the rules of defending and winning our battles.”

The absence of Fernandes goes some way to explaining United’s lack of intensity.

Van de Beek’s strengths as a playmaker come from his running off the ball, rather than his passing and dribbling of it. He would be useful in a team who dominate possession and can sustain attacking pressure, as he was at Ajax, who could do both.

Ten Hag’s United do not yet operate like that and lack the structure for Van de Beek to thrive.

The Dutchman is not well-suited to deputising for Fernandes — a high-risk and high-reward on-ball creator who is usually responsible for the majority of his side’s line-breaking passes.

United see more of the ball with Fernandes playing, too. Since his debut, they average 55 per cent possession in games he appears in. That figure drops to 50 per cent when he is not in the team.

The Portugal international may have had some difficulties adjusting to Ten Hag’s tactical demands, but he remains a vital presence and has stood in as captain this season with official skipper Harry Maguire still struggling to make the team.

The fact the manager yesterday opted for Ronaldo to wear the armband in Fernandes’ absence yesterday (Maguire was an unused substitute) spoke to the strange way United have operated in recent games. The veteran forward, who has only recently been reprimanded by his manager for setting a poor example, received the captaincy by process of elimination.

“We have more leaders — Harry is on the bench, Bruno is suspended, you take the player who has leadership,” Ten Hag told broadcasters before kick-off against Villa.

Advertisement

“The goalie is often far away from the situations — especially in the opponent’s half, and we want to play in the opponent’s half. Casemiro is not speaking full English yet. Then you come to Cristiano. He is doing really (well) the last two games, I hope he keeps that process going.”

Ronaldo did not keep the process going.

He was unable to outwit Mings and struggled to connect with a number of hopeful crosses United sent into the penalty area.

The performance of United’s front four overall was deemed unsatisfactory by their manager.

“I think it was stupid to do that, because we delivered crosses in too quickly from too far,” Ten Hag said. “Too much forcing doesn’t help. We have to bring in the crosses in the right moment.”

United will hope Anthony Martial’s 25-minute second-half cameo will become a full 90 minutes in Sunday’s final pre-World Cup break outing away to Fulham. Their new manager has barely been able to use the player who is best-suited to his attacking plans during his first three months in charge.

Ten Hag’s men have proven they can trouble any team in the Premier League when fully fit and firing.

But, as evidenced in Birmingham yesterday, a soft underbelly remains and must be addressed.

(Top photo: Matthew Ashton: AMA/Getty Images)