CLEVELAND, Ohio — The Cavaliers are now on an eight-game winning streak as they rode a dominant second half to beat LeBron James and the Lakers, 114-100, on Sunday in Los Angeles.

Donovan Mitchell led the way for the Cavs with 33 points. Darius Garland added 24 points and seven assists, and Jarrett Allen recorded another double-double (16 points, 11 rebounds).

James finished with 27 points and seven rebounds.

The Cavs struggled at the start with the exception of Mitchell, who kept them in early. He had 15 of the Cavs’ 30 points in the first quarter and 18 in the final three combined as his teammates got going.

Mitchell’s all-around play caught the attention of NBA TV’s Isiah Thomas.

“Mitchell has gotten better. You wouldn’t think that you would say that, but he’s gotten better as a basketball player,” Thomas said in a postgame segment. “If you’re a guard playing next to Mitchell right now, you’re going to have good numbers. Now, the guard playing next to Mitchell happens to be an All-Star point guard who has raised his game.”

The story of the game was the second half. After giving up 64 points in the opening half, the Cavs held the Lakers to just 36 in the final 24 minutes.

“Our spirit seemed to have left the building,” Lakers coach Darvin Ham told reporters when asked about the second half. “What we saw in the first half is how we want to play. We were right there toe-to-toe with them, actually had the lead going into halftime. Then second half, shots don’t go down, a few turnovers happen and we kind of dropped our heads a little bit. They just kept revving it up, revving it up.”

The Cavaliers have now won four games when trailing by 10 points or more, which is the most in the NBA heading into Monday, when the Cavaliers take on the Clippers.

Behind enemy lines

Sunday was only the second time in James’ career that he has lost against the Cavaliers. The first was in his first season in Miami in 2010-11.

The big thing that James has taken notice of when it comes to his old team is their workmanlike approach to basketball.

“I think we saw last year what team that they could become,” James said after the game. “Seems like they just want to play ball. I’m looking at their roster, you don’t see too many guys all over social media, showing off they got this, and showing off they got that. Just like a bunch of guys that just come to work and just want to play ball.

“That’s probably a joy for a coach and a coaching staff, just knowing you’ve got a bunch of kids who want to come in and play ball, and then a grandpa who looks over everybody in Kevin Love.”

Socially speaking

“36 second half points for the Lakers after giving up 36 in the first quarter alone. My word,” Carter Rodriguez of The Check Down Podcast tweeted.

“Cavs are playing at an elite level. Their backcourt demolished us. Whew,” NBA 2KTV host Chris Manning tweeted.

“A big element with the Cavs is how suddenly they have so many ways to hurt you. Mitchell has 30, Garland making plays scoring and assisting, power inside, Love’s (versatility), shooters (since apparently Wade is legit now?!). They have a lot of guys who can get their own, too,” Matt Moore of Locked On Sports tweeted.

“Lakers waving the white flag with five minutes left in the 4th, you simply hate to see it!” Jordan Zirm of The Sporting News tweeted.

“LeBron James can no longer carry a team in games they should win, especially at home. Lakers just outscored in the 2nd half 56-36 by LeBron’s former team AT HOME,” Skip Bayless of Fox Sports tweeted.

“Cavs are a contender,” Mack Perry of the It’s Cavalier podcast tweeted.

“Wooooo let’s go @cavs keep pushing it!!!!” Krayzie Bone of Bone Thugs N Harmony tweeted.

“How about them CAVS!!!” Jason Nicholas of WOIO-TV tweeted.

Fanatics sells a variety of merchandise featureing the Cleveland Cavaliers' new wordmark and color scheme for 2022-23.

Get the latest Cavs merchandise: Here’s where you can order Cleveland Cavaliers gear online, including jerseys, shirts, hats, 2016 NBA Champions products and much more.

FanDuel Sportsbook STATES: OHIO PRE-LAUNCH BONUS PRE-REGISTER GET BONUS $100 + LAUNCH PROMO GET IT NOW

If you or a loved one has questions and needs to talk to a professional about gambling, call the Ohio Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-589-9966 or the National Council on Program Gambling Helpline (NCPG) at 1-800-522-4700.

Buy Cavs gear: Fanatics, Nike, Amazon, Lids

More Cavaliers coverage

Cavs climb in power rankings after convincing win in Detroit: What they’re saying about the Cavaliers

Why are Cleveland Cavaliers 7-1 and a legitimate contender? An unseen moment in Detroit shows it

Jarrett Allen, Kevin Love help Cleveland Cavaliers power past Detroit Pistons, 112-88

Watch Kevin Love drain a triple, dish out assists for Cavaliers in Detroit (Video)

Watch Isaac Okoro thunder home a two-handed dunk against the Pistons (Video)

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell won’t play Friday night vs. Detroit Pistons, sources say

Cleveland Cavaliers at Detroit Pistons: odds, preview, injury report, lineups, TV

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell dealing with injuries as Cavaliers open longest road trip of season

Cleveland Cavaliers get first extended look at ‘death lineup’

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell earn praise in first extended action together: What they’re saying about the Cavaliers

Darius Garland returns, shares details of scary eye injury: ‘I was ready for surgery’

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell shine together in 114-113 overtime win against Boston Celtics

Cavaliers author 10-0 run to erase deficit against Celtics (Video)

Watch Darius Garland sink three quick triples in return to the court for Cavaliers (Video)

Darius Garland to return to action Wednesday for Cavaliers vs. Celtics

Could Donovan Mitchell end up the greatest shooting guard in Cavs history? Browns’ post-bye aspirations: Terry’s Talkin’ (podcast)

Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Boston Celtics odds, preview, injury report, lineups, TV