Coming away with at least a point in this 3-2 overtime loss to the Red Wings should be no consolation prize for the Rangers.

The significant drop-off in energy from the first period to the second was apparent. The turnovers were detrimental. And the game that started off so well for the Rangers came to a disconcerting end after Detroit forward Dominik Kubalik scored 2:43 into the extra period while on the power play to hand the Blueshirts their second straight loss — and sixth in their past 10 — in front of a sold-out crowd at Madison Square Garden on Sunday night.

“I don’t think we’ve put a real, consistent 60 minutes together very often this season,” captain Jacob Trouba said after the loss, which dropped the Blueshirts to 6-4-3 on the season. “That’s what it takes to win in this league.”

The Rangers lost their grip on the game early in the second period, when the Red Wings evened the score with two goals just over 5 ½ minutes apart. Detroit started playing with purpose and the Rangers didn’t do much to counter it, which allowed for the visitors to push their way right back into the contest.

Rangers goaltender Jaroslav Halak reacts to a goal by Detroit Red Wings center Pius Suter in Sunday’s loss. Corey Sipkin

Access the Rangers beat like never before Join Post Sports+ for exciting member-only features, including real-time texting with Mollie Walker about the inside buzz on the Rangers. tRY IT NOW

Despite somewhat of a better showing in the final frame, over which the Rangers outshot the Red Wings 12-8, the game that seemed to drag on spilled into overtime. Defenseman K’Andre Miller was then called for holding the stick of David Perron in what is usually a play-on sequence, but Detroit capitalized on the power play to secure its second win over a New York team in as many days after blanking the Islanders on Saturday.

“I thought it was a bad call,” Rangers head coach Gerard Gallant said bluntly.

As a result of a sluggish second period, Gallant opted to turn his lineup — which was already without top-four defenseman Ryan Lindgren (upper-body injury) — upside down to start the third. In bumping Artemi Panarin up to the first line with Mika Zibanejad and Kaapo Kakko, Vincent Trocheck centered the second unit between usual bottom-sixers Jimmy Vesey and Sammy Blais.

The Red Wings celebrate their game-winning goal. Corey Sipkin for the NY POST

Alexis Lafreniere skated on the left wing of the third line with Filip Chytil and Barclay Goodrow, while Chris Kreider was demoted to the fourth line with Ryan Carpenter and Julien Gauthier.

“He deserved to be where he was at,” Gallant said of Kreider. “He wasn’t alone.”

Additionally, Zac Jones took just one shift in the third period in an apparent benching.

New York Rangers goaltender Jaroslav Halak. Corey Sipkin

“[Assistant coach Gord Murphy] runs the D,” the coach said when asked about Jones’ ice time. “I don’t think he’s hurt. I never heard anything — a report or nothing like that. I’ll let you know [Monday].”

The Rangers can seemingly have the puck on a string against some teams. Detroit happens to be one of them, but that didn’t last past the first period thanks to the Rangers’ self-inflicted mistakes. The opening 20 minutes showed just how effective they can be at controlling the pace when they work to keep the puck on their sticks for prolonged periods of possession in the offensive zone — as was the case for much of the first period when the Blueshirts built a 2-0 lead with goals from Kakko and Zibanejad.

“The way we played in the first period — obviously it’s not going to be perfect every period every game — but we have that as our recipe to how we want to play right there in that first period,” said Zibanejad, who scored on the power play to give the Rangers a 2-0 lead. “We don’t get to that level when we sometimes make it too hard on ourselves. When that happens, you don’t get the zone time, you don’t get the pressure where they just chip it out and you can change and come right back at them.

“We know how to play, we know what we have to do, we just have to do more of it.”