Sorry, Georgia.

I apologize for ever doubting you. I should never have questioned your greatness but only your boredom level as you have tried to seem interested and have looked for some worthy opponent that held your interest. Tennessee was that team. And the heretofore unbeaten Volunteers paid dearly for it, getting a strong dose of reality in Athens in an eye-popping 27-13 beatdown that in no way resembled a competitive game.

I’ll put this out there.

The Bulldogs are the only great team in college football this year.

Sorry, Ohio State. You can’t struggle with lowly Northwestern — as you did with an average Penn State team the week before — and expect to have any claim on the lofty status of No. 1.

I mean, Stetson Bennett threw four passes in the second half. Four! And only that many so his arm didn’t get stiff.

After Georgia, everybody else is second-tier.

Now as a caveat, we should offer that this declaration of Georgia’s dominance does not necessarily ensure it won’t lose another game this season. The Bulldogs could stumble in the SEC title game, but that's unlikely. They may not run the entire table, which is the majesty of this sport, but no team passes the eyeball test quite like the Dawgs.

Speaking of winning out, maybe TCU can. And maybe, just maybe, Texas can.

Bohls: Texas halts the hex, cans the curse, exorcises program demons in road win at Kansas State

The Longhorns reinserted themselves into the Big 12 race as one of three 4-2 teams that are chasing the undefeated Horned Frogs. And now with the tiebreaker advantage over Kansas State and two of their last three games at Royal-Memorial Stadium versus TCU and Baylor and the other on the road against Texas-killer Kansas, it’s not totally illogical to think Steve Sarkisian’s Horns could win out. It might not be likely, either — it is legal to score in the second half, Sark — but we’re saying there’s a chance.

Since Texas (6-3, 4-2 Big 12) did prove itself and actually prevailed on the road and clung to a second-half lead, against a Top 15 team in Kansas State at that, you’ll find the Longhorns in my Top 25 this week at No. 21. Granted, a great team would have buried the Wildcats after a near-perfect first half and bludgeoned the hosts by, say, 48-24 instead of eking out a 34-27 win by the skin of their teeth.

But it beats all the alternatives and even gives Texas an outside chance at a Sugar Bowl berth. Hey, you've got to dream.

Other teams also got doses of reality.

Hello, Alabama. Is this the end of the Nick Saban dynasty? Will his professional tombstone read “Here lies Saban, the best coach of all time in any sport. Cause of death? NIL”?

It’s possible.

Hello, Clemson. The Tigers’ offensive issues reared their head once more in a bad loss to Notre Dame, although it’s reasonable to think they still have a shot at the College Football Playoff with one loss if they win the ACC.

Hello, Oklahoma State. Guess Spencer Sanders is that good because without him, the Cowboys look very, very ordinary.

Hello, Illinois. Bret Bielema’s surprising Illini got their comeuppance against Michigan State, of all teams, which has (kinda) rivaled Texas A&M as the nation’s most disappointing team.

But greetings to teams on the rise such as LSU, which knocked off Alabama and could actually clinch the SEC West next week if it beats Arkansas and Bama wins against Ole Miss. And Notre Dame is one of the hottest teams in the country after vanquishing Clemson. Oregon continues to put its season-opening meltdown against Georgia behind it and incredibly has itself in the running for a playoff berth out of a much improved Pac-12. Tulane keeps winning. So do Mack Brown’s Tar Heels.

TCU, Texas’ opponent this weekend, was the biggest beneficiary of the weekend’s upsets. It's now 9-0 and firmly remains in the driver’s seat for a first-ever CFP spot if it can take care of business from here on out. Sonny Dykes’ club will also benefit in that Ohio State or Michigan will suffer a loss in its late-season showdown, Clemson’s got a blemish, and the Frogs have been impressive.

If this past weekend is any indication, the rest of November looks promising, but Georgia’s on my mind as the one team that rises above all the rest. Please accept my apology, Kirby.

Here’s my Top 25 ballot:

1. Georgia

2. Ohio State

3. Michigan

4. TCU

5. Oregon

6. Tennessee

7. Utah

8. LSU

9. USC

10. Alabama

11. Clemson

12. UCLA

13. Ole Miss

14. Tulane

15. Notre Dame

16. Penn State

17. Central Florida

18. North Carolina

19. North Carolina State

20. Washington

21. Texas

22. Illinois

23. Cincinnati

24. Kansas State

25. Louisville