Davante Adams was the last player in the visiting locker room after the Raiders’ 27-20 loss to Jacksonville (3-6) on Sunday.

He slowly gathered his things, slipping into a pair of Dior x Jordan Low Tops before interviewing with media for roughly 10 minutes.

Adams talked his way through the Raiders' sixth defeat of the season. The loss marked the third time the Raiders have blown a 17-point lead this season — tied for the most in a single season in NFL history.

More content from the game:

He spoke on some of the frustrations of the team as they dropped another game and remain at the bottom of the AFC West with a 2-6 record.

Tale of two halves for Vegas

The Raiders (2-6) pilaged in the opening two quarters but crashed and burned in the second half.

Seven days after being shut out by the Saints, they failed to reach the end zone in the second half and dropped another crucial game in a fading season.

Adams had nine receptions on nine targets at the half, logging 146 yards and two touchdowns as Las Vegas took a double-digit lead into the break.

He’d pass his season-high for receiving yards by the second quarter and had the Raiders up big after his second touchdown catch of the day.

Las Vegas ran a fake-reverse with Derek Carr acting like he was handing the ball to Josh Jacobs and Mack Hollins before dropping back and training his eyes to Adams, who was streaking across the field.

Adams lulled the first defender to sleep, slowing his pace before speeding past him toward the left side of the field.

He then cut in front of safety Andre Cisco, making him to slip as he tried to change directions to stick with Adams.

The result was the superstar receiver all alone as he snagged a touchdown and put the Raiders completely in the driver seat.

But the second half wasn’t as kind to the All-Pro receiver. He logged one catch on eight targets for zero yards.

“I feel like, especially if you got a friggin' high school team, and that's one thing but, if you got to watch a grown man, been doing it for a long time and had success in his league and know how to win games, you got to find a way to win,” Adams said while referencing some of their losses this season.

“You know, I think that the way we’re attacking in the first half, it was working to a certain extent,” he added. “Like I said before, we could be better, but it was working. I feel like we got away from that, and you know started playing the game a little different and that's not the way we got to do it.”

Adams finished the game with 17 targets. Seven of those came in the fourth quarter.

During a nine-play drive to start the fourth quarter, Adams went six plays without seeing a target. The result of the drive was a punt.

The final two possessions saw a bulk of targets but that was out of necessity as time drained from the clock.

“Let's not sit here and say we didn't have chances,” head coach Josh McDaniels said after the game. “We certainly had chances in the second half to complete balls to him and anybody else, you know, it wasn't it wasn't like we didn't have opportunities there. So, they didn't they didn't like double him to the point where we couldn't throw the ball to him.”

Jaguars’ defense make second half adjustments, change the game

Coming in, Jacksonville felt confident in Tyson Campbell’s abilities. They can walk away from Sunday’s game knowing he played even better than expected.

Campbell’s second half performance was the making of a star corner, following Adams during the decisive moments of the fourth quarter and preventing one of the league’s best from having any type of impact on the game.

“I just kept on keeping on. If I want to be the best in this league, I got to step up and make plays,” Campbell said after the game. “So, you know I took pride in that. I feel like the team was counting on me, so I was all for it.”

Jacksonville started to shade coverage wherever Adams lined up on the field and kept multiple bodies near him when he ran routes.

According to Adams, the Jaguars didn't do anything magical, the Raiders just went away from what was working.

"I think they played a good game, a really good second half. They finished a lot better than we did so that's not a slight at them at all, but I wouldn't look at it like that," Adams said. "I've played in a million games where I could tell you yes. But I wouldn't say that there was any magic thing that was done. We could've continued doing what we were doing in the first half and it would've been, who knows. I feel like we didn't put ourselves in the best position just how we came out in the second half."

The Raiders will play the Colts next week in Las Vegas while the Jaguars will travel to Kansas City for a matchup against the Chiefs.

Juston Lewis is a sports reporter for the Florida Times-Union. You can follow him on Twitter at @JustonLewis_.

Sign up for the First Coast Varsity Weekly Newsletter for more content.