Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Davante Adams voiced his frustration Sunday after his team suffered a disappointing loss to the Jacksonville Jaguars to drop to 2-6 this season.

"There's no reason why we should be losing games like this, and it's frustrating," Adams said postgame, according to ESPN's Paul Gutierrez. "If we played for a shitty team, then it's one thing. But that's not what it is."

Coming off a 24-0 loss to the New Orleans Saints, the Raiders built a 17-0 lead over the Jaguars but weren't able to hold on to it, ultimately suffering a 27-20 defeat. It was Las Vegas' third loss this year after holding a lead of at least 17 points.

The Raiders scored a touchdown or field goal on all but one of their offensive drives in the first half. However, Las Vegas was shut out in the final two quarters and allowed 17 unanswered Jacksonville points.

"The way we were attacking in the first half was working, to a certain extent," Adams said. "I feel like we got away from that and started playing the game a little different, and that's not the way we've got to do it."

The All-Pro wideout added he isn't taking a shot at the Raiders' coaching staff with his postgame remarks.

"But at the end of the day, if I'm rolling in certain situations like that, or if the pass game is something that's helping us move the ball and win games, then, obviously, that's the idea. You want to stick with what's working," said Adams, who caught 10 passes for 146 yards and two touchdowns in Week 9.

He added: "We did a decent enough job to still put ourselves in a decent position moving into the second half, and then we just basically fell apart. I don't even know how else to even characterize it. But it's frustrating. Ain't no way we should be losing games at the rate we are, let alone the way that we are."

Las Vegas entered this season with high expectations after hiring head coach Josh McDaniels. The Raiders acquired Adams in a blockbuster trade with the Green Bay Packers and signed free-agent pass-rusher Chandler Jones this past offseason, adding to a team that posted a 10-7 record and made the playoffs last year.