The Astros didn't just make history. Jim "Mattress Mack" McIngvale did, too.

The Gallery Furniture owner/patriarch is set to pocket a record $75 million after betting $10 million early in the baseball season on his hometown team winning the World Series, which indeed happened Saturday night.

McIngvale made the wager through multiple large bets with different sportsbooks, including a $3 million bet at 10-to-1 odds placed through the Caesars Sportsbook app. The $30 million payout Caesars owes McIngvale is the largest ever through a legal sportsbook in the United States. Earlier in the week, McIngvale, Caesars and Tempur-Sealy provided new mattresses to first responders and military members in Houston, Philadelphia and Atlantic City.

“What can we say? We just wrote the biggest check in sports betting history to Mattress Mack for $30 million," Caesars Digital COO Ken Fuchs said. "Would we do it all again? You bet. While Mack may have won this round on the field, we’re proud of how we teamed up to support first responders and military veterans in Houston, Philly, and Atlantic City. And to Mack – we tip our Astros cap – and remind him that he can now support his Texans and Rockets … both attractively priced at +100,000 to win a championship. The Astros are also currently +550 to win next year’s Fall Classic.”

Already a cult figure in Houston through his furniture business, the Series vaulted McIngvale into the national consciousness, and meme-dom, in part because of the way he lashed back at Phillies fans who were deriding the Astros Jose Altuve after Game 3, an incident captured on video.

RELATED: What to know about Mattress Mack, the Houston furniture mogul

But amid all the hoopla of the World Series win, McIngvale struck a conciliatory tone in an interview with FOX26-TV afterward. With fans surrounding him cheering "Mat-tress Mack, Mat-tress Mack" at Minute Maid Park, McIngvale said that his outburst in Philadelphia "was not his brightest hour" and that he was simply "doing what Texans do" in defending Altuve, his team and his city.

Mack said his gambling winnings from Las Vegas will be wired to him next week.

"It's the biggest sports bet win in history," he told FOX26, a fact that gambling specialists have verified. "We're very happy about that. But the Astros did all the work. All I did was bet the money."

Astros fans captured images of Mack going completely bonkers after Yordan Alvarez crushed his 450-foot homer to put the Astros in the lead for good in Game 6.

Instead of his usual money-back guarantee if the Astros win and customers spend at least $3,000 on certain sleep sets or power motion furniture at Gallery Furniture, McIngvale has said he'll give customers double their money back now that the Astros have won it all. That means customers who spent $3,000 on those select items will get $6,000.

"Astros fans are happy. Gallery Furniture customers are happy," he said. "And now I can spend some more money advertising."