Published 11/07/2022, 12:07 PM IST

Novak Djokovic, after his surprising loss at the Paris Masters, shared about his injuries in an exclusive interview. The Serb has consistently denied having an injury. Fans witnessed him physically stumbling during his Paris Masters final loss to the Danish teenager Holger Rune.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

After the match, Djokovic was questioned about his request for the physio during the match. The Grand Slam Champion had called the physio during the final set of the match. After the injury scare, the 35-year-old addressed about the same during the post-match press conference.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Novak Djokovic doesn’t want to use his injury as an excuse

The current world number eight was observed to be in some discomfort in the third and final set. He asked the chair umpire for a quick check by his physio after he broke to lead 3-1. It seemed to be a thigh problem. Following the quick check by the physio, his camp kept a wary eye on him as the 35-year-old had an intense battle with the rising Danish teenage star.

Tennis – ATP 500 – Astana Open – National Tennis Center, Astana, Kazakhstan – October 8, 2022, Serbia’s Novak Djokovic reacts during his semi-final match against Russia’s Daniil Medvedev REUTERS/Pavel Mikheyev

The ‘Serbinator’ suffered his first defeat in Bercy since losing the 2018 final to Karen Khachanov at the Rolex Paris Masters. After his recent loss against Rune, Djokovic said, “I mean, oh, I don’t want to talk about that, because I know that you guys might take that as, you know, excuse or something like this why I lost.”

DIVE DEEPER

‘I Can Suspend His First Title’ – Novak Djokovic’s Playful Warning to 19-Year-Old ATP Player Ahead of ATP Paris Masters Finals

The Serb further explained, “No, everything was okay. I mean, it’s normal that when you play day after day and you have some tightness here and there.” He repeatedly clarified about not suffering from any injuries.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Djokovic’s team prepped a secret beverage for him

On the internet, there is a contentious video where Novak Djokovic’s team prepares a drink for him. It was taken during his semifinal victory over Stefanos Tsitsipas. Djokovic’s support staff was captured on camera preparing a drink for the 21-time Grand Slam champion.

WATCH THIS STORY: Novak Djokovic’s epic finals against Rafael Nadal, and Andy Murray, at the Australian Open

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Many considered the support team’s behavior extremely bizarre. The crew seems to be taking extra precautions to keep the drink hidden before it was given to a ball kid and ultimately delivered to Djokovic.

What do you think about the behavior of Djokovic’s coaching staff? Let us know in the comments.