Quotes

UCLA head coach Chip Kelly on running back Zach Charbonnet:

"Zach was unavailable, tried to go in warmups and then couldn’t [inaudible] so he was unavailable tonight."

Kelly on ASU scoring 18 points in a row:

"I think one of the things—we’ll look at the film—I don’t think we did a great job tackling in the open field. We did a really good job of making him throw to his check-downs but when he throws to the check-downs we have to rally and tackle and we’ll look at the tape to make the corrections, but I think as a whole group on the defensive side of the ball, we need to tackle better."

Kelly on defensive coordinator Bill McGovern:

"He’s just unavailable. I did not want him to travel, so he was unavailable today."

Kelly on UCLA rushing for over 400 yards without Charbonnet:

"Yeah, you know, we were fortunate losing Zach at the end of the Stanford game [?] and I’ll give Kaz and Keegan credit, both of those guys are banged up a little bit themselves, you know, if you watched them I don’t think either of those guys were 100% and then it was good to get Colson, the fact that we had a third back, it started to get thin there for a little bit there when Kaz went down, you know, what are we down to? We only had one other running back who traveled with us because it was on the road and I think Dorian, or the threat of Dorian on every play is really beneficial because when Dorian takes off—and I don’t know what he had today—but I know he had a really good day rushing the football too and then I think our guys up front understand our scheme and understand what we can do, so I think we can attack in a couple of ways. It took all of those guys—it took every single guy—to finish off that football game."

Kelly on DTR:

"He did and I think that’s a really good point, Ben, I think he kind of had to put it on his shoulders a little bit with not having Zach available to us as a team, so I think when you have a player like that who can step up like that—and it’s really with Dorian, the great part about him is whatever we need, you know, we needed his legs at certain points in time and he made some critical plays for us, but he also stood in there and threw the ball really well for us, so he was a huge part of getting back and [inaudible]."

Kelly on pulling away from ASU:

"Yeah, it’s something we practice, you know, we had moved the ball earlier, we had an exchange problem in the backfield and that’s what was the fumble but we were moving the ball on that drive also. You know, we talk about it all the time—competitors respond whether it’s to adversity or momentum swings or [inaudible] that happen in a game and competitors respond and I think that’s what our offense, you know, they knew were up and if we either continued to hold onto the ball and run the clock our or score and make it a two-score game, there wasn’t going to be an opportunity for them to get back in it, so credit to those guys, I think it was all runs and we had a lot of contributions from all three of the running backs and from Dorian, so when you can run the ball when people know you’re going to run the ball, that’s critical, but I think our guys understand to be a really good football team you have to be good in four-minute offense and we were good in four-minute offense tonight."

Kelly on the defense:

"I’d have to, no, they were running the same thing that they had in the first and second quarter, they do a good job with him, he gets the ball out of his hands quickly and we knew that coming in. He threw for 435 last week against Colorado, you know, he was their quarterback when they beat Washington here, he scored 45 in that game, give him a little bit of credit, I thought we generated a better pass rush in the first and second quarter than we got in the third and fourth quarter, that’s part of it, our ability to be great in coverage is a lot easier when we can get the quarterback off his spot and give him credit, he took some shots today and still stood in there and continued to throw the football, so we’ll have to look at everything when we get a chance to watch the film on Sunday."