AUBURN, Alabama—Walk-on linebacker Barton Lester is all Auburn. Always has been.

Growing up in Montgomery, he vividly remembers running around in a No. 24 Cadillac Williams jersey and even wore it to church on Sunday. It was only fitting that with Cadillac running the show for the Tigers against Mississippi State in his first game as Auburn’s interim coach, Lester would finally get his opportunity to show what he could do for the Tigers on defense.

“It has been tough,” Lester said of the week that was. “At the end of the day a lot of us just want to represent Auburn. I have been an Auburn fan my entire life. I have been busting my butt here for four years. To get an opportunity to go out there and play that game after the week we had, it meant a lot.

“I really wish we could have finished it, but we can move forward with that. The Arkansas game, we really kind of fell off. I’m proud of the way we fought tonight and obviously it sucked to lose, but we just preached week about serving one another, discipline, and belief. I think we showed that tonight and we can live with that moving forward.”

Playing at Montgomery Academy before going to the Air Force Academy to play football for the Falcons, Lester spent two seasons there before deciding to return home and pursue his dream of playing for Auburn. It wasn’t something that many people understood, but for Lester it was all about that dream.

“To be honest it’s an answered prayer,” he said. “Pretty much my whole journey here has been an answered prayer, something I have been praying about since I was two years old. I’m a huge Auburn fan. I transferred to come here when everybody told me I was stupid and would never play. Just having that chip on my shoulder and working, it means a lot. I wish we could have won. I expect we’re going to do that moving forward if we have the same fight. It means a lot and I thank God he’s put me in a position to make plays. It’s really an answered prayer.”

Finishing with two tackles on defense, including an impressive tackle for a loss when he ran down a running back behind the line of scrimmage on a pass to the perimeter, Lester said he was happy to finally be able to do his part for the Tigers and finally be able to contribute to help the team out in more ways than just on special teams.

“First of all, I just thank God,” Lester said. “Six years ago I would have never guessed I would be out there in an SEC game making pretty big plays. That’s what I try to do. My role has been special teams here for the last few years. I really try to bring the energy every day. The linebacker room is really tight. We love each other. When we see each other succeed it builds us up. I’m a guy who is vocal all the time. I’m just very passionate about this place and the defense and everything that goes with it. I think you saw that tonight. Hopefully moving forward we can do the same.”

Lester and the Tigers are hoping to build on the momentum created from a tough first week under Williams’ guidance. Returning home for back-to-back home games against Texas A&M and Western Kentucky before facing off against Alabama in the Iron Bowl, Lester said the respect the team has for their new interim coach and his love for Auburn makes them excited to finish things on a positive note this season.

“He’s not a perfect man,” Lester said. “He knows he’s not the pinnacle head coach right now, but gosh guys get behind him and believe because they know his story. They know what he’s done for his university. They know the heart he has. At the end of the day the guys respect that and I think you saw that tonight with the way we fought, just rallying around him. I’m really proud of him and how he’s done it because it hasn’t been easy for anybody, especially for him. I’m super proud and just hope we can use this as a positive moving forward.”