The Buccaneers and Rams met on Sunday in a rematch of the divisional round playoff game that sent Los Angeles to the NFC title game a year ago. Both teams have come a long way since then, and not in a good way, as both Tom Brady and Matthew Stafford entered Week 9 desperate for a turnaround. And both continued to struggle throughout their rematch, trading dismal drives all evening. That is, until Brady engineered a last-minute comeback to steal a 16-13 victory and snap the Bucs' three-game losing streak, dropping the reigning champions two games below .500.

The win was not pretty, to be sure, with Mike Evans and Scotty Miller each struggling to hang on to the ball as Brady fought to elevate Tampa Bay's slumping offense at home. But the "W" suddenly, inexplicably, pushes Brady and Co. back to first place in the NFC South. The Rams, meanwhile, have even more questions to answer after Sean McVay's squad consistently failed to seal a one-score lead that came almost exclusively on the back of Cooper Kupp.

Here are additional takeaways from Sunday's sloppy Buccaneers-Rams showdown:

Why the Buccaneers won

The Rams are awful? Los Angeles' refusal to put the ugly game away certainly helped. But let's focus on the positive: Tom Brady still has it, even if the rest of his team does not. It was another day of amateurish play-calling from offensive coordinator Byron Leftwich, who's never met a second-and-short running play he doesn't love, and Julio Jones predictably limped off to leave Brady throwing to a drop-infected crew headlined by Mike Evans and Scotty Miller. Even so, Brady kept firing catchable bullets and saved his best for last, needing just 35 seconds to go 60 yards in six plays for the game-winning touchdown drive. On a night his staff and supporting cast tried their hardest to let him down, TB12 stood tall, briefly offsetting all the big-picture concern about this team.

Credit belongs to Todd Bowles' defense, too. While Bowles may be cranking up the heat on his own seat, his "D" got after Stafford on the regular Sunday, taking advantage of L.A.'s weakened front to finish with four sacks and twice as many QB hits. Vita Vea, in particular, was a force on the interior, downing Stafford twice. Somehow, the Rams ended the game without throwing a pick, but the Bucs stymied their aerial attack throughout the contest, with the sole exception of Cooper Kupp.

Why the Rams lost

Sean McVay's offense is dead. Stafford can't be blamed entirely for the shortcomings in front of him -- the line remains a sieve, prompting the QB to either rush throws or prepare to be walloped -- but he isn't capable of elevating such a shoddy unit, either. The big-armed signal-caller was fortunate to escape without throwing his ninth or 10th picks of the year, but if he wasn't airing it out to a wide-open Cooper Kupp downfield, he probably wasn't on the mark. Allen Robinson did emerge on a couple of third downs, showcasing his hands, but it's saying something that his "big day" featured all of 24 yards through the air. The ground game, meanwhile, was nonexistent as usual, even with the notable return of Cam Akers to the field.

Turning point

First down Bucs, with 44 seconds left in the game: Brady hits Cade Otton over the middle for a 28-yard pickup, pushing the ball to the Rams' 32-yard line. Up to that point, Tampa Bay had not proven capable of delivering in or near the red zone, but this connection was a clear indication that Brady wasn't finished. The Rams were totally inept on their previous five possessions, totaling just a single first down in that span while trying to ice the game, and Brady's Otton connection ensured Tampa Bay would at least get one final shot at putting the ball in the end zone.

Play of the game

Kupp had the splashiest plays, for sure, but we're breaking the rules here and awarding this to Brady's entire final series, which proved he -- not the Bucs around him -- is still capable of success in what's been an otherwise rocky 2022:

What's next

The Buccaneers (4-5) will head overseas for the first-ever NFL matchup in Germany, squaring off with the Seahawks (6-3), who routed their rival Cardinals on Sunday. The Rams (3-5), meanwhile, will return home in Week 10 for a showdown with those same Cardinals, who will be looking to snap a two-game slide.