Across most of what was an explosive first half offensively against the Jacksonville Jaguars, the Las Vegas Raiders didn't look anything like the team that got shut out against the New Orleans Saints last week.

Wide receiver Davante Adams couldn't be stopped as he scored two first half touchdowns that each went for 25-plus yards.

Quarterback Derek Carr looked in complete control, and the Raiders defense was able to make an impact early with recovering a Jaguars fumble.

It was all enough for the Raiders to get to a 17-0 lead in the second quarter, but you've already heard this kind of story before this season, haven't you Raider fans?

That's because the Raiders have previously blown two other 17-0 or more leads this season, and history repeated itself on Sunday.

The Jaguars were able to build some momentum before halftime by scoring 10 points in the last five minutes of the first half.

They then scored touchdowns on their first two possessions of the second half, as the Raiders strangely went away from getting the ball to Adams more in the second half.

Jaguars QB Trevor Lawrence had one of his best games of the season in completing over 80 percent of his passes, and running back Travis Etienne powered to a 109 rushing yards and two touchdowns.

The Raiders offense couldn't muster a comeback, and once again, the Raiders lost a game they had every chance to win.

It's a big reason why they're now 2-6, and why you could realistically consider their season to be officially over.

Watch the Silver and Black live when you get your Raiders tickets from SI Tickets HERE

Please make sure you tell us your thoughts when you like our Facebook Page WHEN YOU CLICK RIGHT HERE.

Want to talk about this? Want to air your opinion about all things Las Vegas Raiders? Maybe you like to talk about other sports that aren't Silver and Black related? We got your back. Join our 100% FREE message board, a brand new option, when you CLICK RIGHT HERE.

Want the latest breaking Las Vegas Raiders news delivered straight to you? CLICK THE FOLLOW button at the top of the page. Don't miss any of the latest up-to-the-second updates for your Las Vegas Raiders when you follow on Twitter @HondoCarpenter, @BaydounDarin