CHAMPAIGN, Ill. – Michigan State had just posted back-to-back sacks to force a fifth turnover on downs for Illinois.

The Spartans led by eight points with 2:51 left in the fourth quarter with the ball at the Illinois 9-yard line and the Fighting Illini were out of timeouts.

It was a chance for Michigan State to ice the game but that’s not what happened. Although the Spartans (4-5, 2-4 Big Ten) still held on for a 23-15 upset win at Illinois (7-2, 4-2) on Saturday, the last offensive possession was questionable.

Michigan State ran the ball with quarterback Payton Thorne and receiver Jayden Reed on the first two plays to keep the clock running. Then, after a taking a delay of game penalty, calling a timeout and facing third-and-goal from the 14, Thorne threw an incomplete pass that stopped the clock with 1:10 left.

Michigan State uses ‘extreme belief’ to pull off upset at No. 14 Illinois

Michigan State’s placekicking game, which has been highly questionable all season (2-for-6 on field goals with a second missed extra point of the year on Saturday), faltered again. Ben Patton missed a 31-yard field goal wide right and that gave the Fighting Illini one last chance, although the Spartans got another stop on defense to seal the win.

“We were trying to score a touchdown obviously and trying to see what we could do to get it in the end zone,” coach Mel Tucker said. “At the same time, we were working the clock down as best we could and we were being aggressive trying to close the game out. We were in position for an excellent field goal opportunity. It didn’t work out for us so we had to go back out there and play defense.”

On the third down call, Thorne moved to his right and threw at running back Elijah Collins, who was a little late turning around to look for the ball, which fell incomplete. Tight end Daniel Barker, an offseason transfer addition from Illinois, was also on the right side of the field and open in the end zone.

“I guess (Barker) was wide open in the end zone too,” Thorne said. “After I threw it, I saw him but my read is low to high so I start with our back. I can’t really throw the ball without (Collins) looking. We just weren’t on the same page I guess but that wasn’t good enough. It comes down to the guy throwing the ball so I should have squeezed it for a second or something.”

Overheard outside Michigan State’s locker room: Setting the tone and you like that?

Despite the missed scoring opportunity late, Michigan State did enough to pull out its biggest win of the season. However, the Spartans have very little margin for error, need to win two of their last three games to become bowl eligible and can’t afford to squander scoring chances.

“The end of that drive wasn’t great and obviously not getting points there is not good,” said Thorne, who noted communication issues on the final possession. “We need to punch the ball in and score a touchdown there.”

Related Michigan State football stories:

Illinois coach Bret Bielema insinuates Michigan State players faked injuries

Michigan State vs. Rutgers kickoff time announced

Michigan State missing suspended players, other starters at Illinois

University of Michigan police still investigating postgame tunnel incidents

How suspensions will affect Michigan State on the field vs. Illinois