UCLA did what it had to do in beating Arizona State, 50-36.

It’s now 8-1, and it's the program’s best nine-game start since 2005.

In 2005, in fact, was when UCLA coach Karl Dorrell led his team to 8-1 – before finishing the season 10-2. If you were around for that season, you know it’s a bit similar to this season. A veteran quarterback who had really come into his own, Drew Olson, teamed with a difference-making running back in Maurice Jones-Drew. It had a truly elite offense – No. 16 in the country for yards per play. That team was of the Heartbreak Kids variety, always mounting comebacks and emerging from overtimes.

The feeling with that team was similar to this year’s version just not from the standpoint of Olson and Jones-Drew, but with a similar defense. UCLA’s defense that year wasn’t good, and its offense bailed it out time and time again. Heck, that 2005 defense spotted Northwestern 22 points in the Sun Bowl, putting it on the UCLA offense to eventually mount the comeback and win 50-38.

Hmm, 50-38. 50-36. It’s funny, there was some distant memory when I saw that score up on the Sun Devil Stadium scoreboard – and at first I couldn’t place it. Then it almost eerily reminded me of that 2005 team.

The Heartbreak Kid element of that 2005 team was mostly because of its defense, giving UCLA fans practically a heart attack week to week.

You probably weren’t close to cardiac arrest on Saturday night as UCLA’s defense let ASU back in the game – to come within 6 points with 6 minutes left – after having built a very comfortable, seeming blowout at 42-18. But you probably felt the equivalent of a few pre-heart-attack tremors in your chest as you watched UCLA’s defense allow ASU to score 18 straight points in about a quarter’s time.

In that 2005 season, you came away with a feeling of UCLA “doing what it had to do” to win. The season was absolutely exciting, no question. But you have to admit, it leaves you wondering: why does it have to be this hard? It’s that age-old UCLA football stigma that has been attached to this program since 1998 and the infamous “Hurricane Bowl” against Miami -- why can’t UCLA put together a good offense and even a decent defense in the same season?

I know, many of you think this is nitpicking. You say things like, “Win and move on.” But come on, you know you’re saying that because you really don’t want to face the dismay of thinking about this defense. I get you. But I’m here to think about it for you.

There really isn’t too much to talk about how UCLA’s program under Chip Kelly got to this point defensively. Well, there isn’t too much to say that we haven’t said many times before. UCLA’s defensive struggles under Kelly have been quite a bit about coaching. He hired a friend, Jerry Azzinaro, as his defensive coordinator – a coach who hadn’t been a DC in over 10 years and wasn’t good at it then. It took four years for Kelly to come around to facing that it wasn’t working out with Azzinaro.

Along the way, remember, to try to fix Azzinaro’s defense, Kelly hired secondary coach Brian Norwood, who brought his pressure-style, striker-dominated scheme from Navy to Azzinaro’s vanilla.

He then went out and hired Bill McGovern as his DC, and going into this season it felt like an Azzinaro retread: an older, journeyman coach – a friend of Kelly’s – that hadn’t really been a DC in college in over 10 years.

Now, McGovern’s defense so far this season, schematically, isn’t as problematic as Azzinaro’s. You can’t really necessarily pick apart scheme and tactics. You get the feeling this season that McGovern and his assistants are doing what they can scheme-wise with the talent they’ve been dealt. Yes, we’re back to the talent level issue, folks – because it’s glaringly not good on the defensive side of the ball.

Again, we’re not breaking any new ground here with analysis. We’re repeating ourselves, in fact. But it needed to be said after that ASU game. While all UCLA fans want to just put your head down, tolerate the defense, bathe in the beauty of the offense and hope it all ends up okay at the end of every game’s 60 minutes, the defense had to be brought up.

We’ll go even a little further: If Chip Kelly has indeed turned around the UCLA football program, it’s going to be tough to witness it going forward with this level of defense. Especially in the Big Ten. Something has to be done. It’s something you can take for one season but you won’t be able to live with it season after season. It’s like if your wife asks you to go out with another couple you don’t like; you know you can tolerate the couple for one dinner, but you tell your wife you’re not ever doing it again.

It’s difficult to consider whether just a talent upgrade would fix the problem entirely. It would almost certainly greatly help. And at this point, we’re so shellshocked here at BRO when it comes to analyzing defensive scheme, having PTSD from so many bad defenses over the years, we probably still have to assert that some kind of coaching/schematic adjustment needs to be made in the offseason.

If we’re ever going to conclude that Kelly has, indeed, “turned around the program,” we need to watch a better defense than this. However Kelly needs to get there – talent upgrade, scheme upgrade – whatever. Just please, get us there.

For this season, there’s really nothing the UCLA defensive coaches can do, seemingly. I kind of felt that perhaps the UCLA defensive analyst and former DC Clancy Pendergast, who pretty much has taken over calling the defensive plays since McGovern has been out ill, was showing signs of improvement. In the two games he’s called, the Stanford and ASU games, it seemed like he sent a little more pressure than McGovern’s bendy-and-not-breaky. It also seemed like it was a matter of Pendergast kind of getting a feel for the opposing offense in the first quarter – with Stanford’s offense and ASU’s offense both pretty much waltzing through UCLA’s defense on its first couple of possessions. But then maybe Pendergast just needed to get that look at those offenses, adjust and it would all be okay. But then that ASU 18-point outburst happened and blew that theory. It did seem like the defensive coaches went a little too soon to an 11-man unit made up predominantly of non-starters too early – in that third quarter at 42-18. That seemed to get ASU’s offense back in a rhythm and it took off from there. But regardless, while we held out a little hope for Pendergast, we’re now back to the the square-one mindset of just grabbing onto something sturdy and white-knuckling it through every UCLA defensive experience.

You might want to hold tight and close your eyes next week against Arizona because, even though the Wildcats aren’t a good team, they do have a pretty good offense, No. 11 in the nation for points per play and No. 13 for yards per play. UCLA will almost certainly win, like you thought going into the Arizona State game, but there could absolutely be a segment of the game when Arizona scores 18 straight points and you have to start looking for your heart attack medicine again.

And then there’s USC, which will be the white-knuckler of the season, with the Trojans having the best offense UCLA’s defense will face. There isn’t the kind of medicine on the market right now that will keep your heart from skipping some beats on November 19th.

That’s all. This was just a little exercise in saying the thing about the defense that needed to said. How it was reminiscent of 2005. How it's just so UCLA-ish to have a super-elite offense and not even a decent defense to match it. So, let’s go back to enjoying this season, to what will almost certainly be a top-ten ranking going into the USC game, Dorian Thompson-Robinson’s hurdles, Zach Charbonnet shedding blockers like gnats and Kazmeir Allen’s 70-yard scampers. Back just a couple of years ago, you would have given anything to be 8-1 under these defensive circumstances. So let's aspire for more, of course, but appreciate this. Just maybe go get yourself a beer when UCLA’s defense is on the field – and guzzle it while you're popping that heart medicine.