LOS ANGELES -- It looked like another one of those showings against former franchise face LeBron James, who has owned his old team since bolting to Los Angeles in 2018 and sending Cleveland tumbling down into the NBA’s underbelly.

Not this time. Not anymore.

The Cavaliers overcame a groggy start on Sunday afternoon, beating the floundering Lakers, 114-100. It’s Cleveland’s eighth consecutive victory, moving their record to 8-1. Los Angeles is 2-7.

“L.A.,” Cavs coach J.B. Bickerstaff said when asked what caused a slow start. “It’s a 48-minute game and just have trust that at some point it would start clicking. It did in the second half.”

Maybe it was the cross-country flight that preceded an evening in L.A. After all, L.A. nightlife is said to be undefeated.

Maybe it was the abnormally early wakeup call, with the first bus leaving their swanky Beverly Hills hotel shortly after 9 a.m. local time. Maybe it was the stage -- and opponent. While the Lakers don’t have nearly the same mystique, it’s still a luminous roster featuring All-Star mainstays Anthony Davis, Russell Westbrook and, of course, LeBron.

FanDuel Sportsbook STATES: OHIO PRE-LAUNCH BONUS PRE-REGISTER GET BONUS $100 + LAUNCH PROMO GET IT NOW

It could have been any of those factors. Perhaps all of them. Whatever the reason, the Cavs didn’t look like themselves early on.

They helplessly watched as the Lakers diced up the defense, scoring the game’s first seven points and leading 36-30 at the end of the opening quarter -- their first time leading after the first quarter all season.

“We were tentative. We weren’t bringing the physicality and taking it to them. Thought we were on our heels,” Bickerstaff explained.

“Give L.A. credit. But our guys believe in our defense and know when called upon we can get stops. It was five guys protecting the paint. We told them at halftime, ‘If they beat us taking contested 3s then that’s on the coaching staff, but if they beat us in the paint that’s on everybody.’ They took the message to heart.”

Sparked by another signature Bickerstaff halftime speech that earned him plenty of praise following the win, the Cavs finally woke up in the second half. They opened on a 9-2 run and took their first lead of the afternoon at the 10:07 mark of the third quarter.

“I don’t know what it is, but he gets into us, and we take it with a grain of salt,” Cavs guard Darius Garland said of Bickerstaff’s fiery message. “We listen to it and try to execute in the second half. He’s the leader of all this. He makes up all the game plans. He gets into all the strategies and knows the ins and outs of it. We try to listen to him. We’re gonna go with him.”

There were two other short-lived lead changes. After that, the rout was on, the kind Cleveland used to be on the other end of against James’ Lakers, who had won five straight in this head-to-head matchup.

The Lakers, playing the first game of a back-to-back, emptied the bench with five minutes remaining after the Cavs built the lead to a game-high 17 points. Cleveland outscored Los Angeles 56-36 in a brilliant second half.

“We just locked in as a group,” the Cavs’ Donovan Mitchell said. “They were getting stuff that was too early in the game. It was attack, attack, attack. There are going to be times where that happens. But we felt we let them do whatever they wanted to do. We didn’t dictate to them.

“At halftime, we had that discussion and came back out and set the tone defensively. They had 36 points in the second half. That’s who we can be. Just keep building on it and getting two halves like that.”

Mitchell and Garland -- Cleveland’s All-Star backcourt -- inflicted most of the damage. Mitchell finished with 33 points on 10 of 17 shooting, 1 of 7 from 3-point range and 12 of 13 from the free-throw line. Garland added 24 points and seven assists.

James led the way for the Lakers, tallying 27 points, seven rebounds and four assists in 34 minutes. Davis and Westbrook added 19 apiece.

For the last few years, the story leaving Hollywood has been about how much the Cavs still need -- and miss -- LeBron. The game against Cleveland has always been a chance for LeBron to send that reminder, having fun at his old team’s expense. Big brother would pick on little brother.

The script has flipped. Little brother is all grown up now. The Cavs showed LeBron what he no longer has.

Up next

The Cavs will continue their five-game road trip on Monday night against the Los Angeles Clippers. Tipoff is set for 7:30 p.m.

-

Get the latest Cavs merchandise: Here’s where you can order Cleveland Cavaliers gear online, including jerseys, shirts, hats, 2016 NBA Champions products and much more.

If you or a loved one has questions and needs to talk to a professional about gambling, call the Ohio Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-589-9966 or the National Council on Program Gambling Helpline (NCPG) at 1-800-522-4700.

Buy Cavs gear: Fanatics, Nike, Amazon, Lids

More Cavaliers coverage

Cavs climb in power rankings after convincing win in Detroit: What they’re saying about the Cavaliers

Why are Cleveland Cavaliers 7-1 and a legitimate contender? An unseen moment in Detroit shows it

Jarrett Allen, Kevin Love help Cleveland Cavaliers power past Detroit Pistons, 112-88

Watch Kevin Love drain a triple, dish out assists for Cavaliers in Detroit (Video)

Watch Isaac Okoro thunder home a two-handed dunk against the Pistons (Video)

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell won’t play Friday night vs. Detroit Pistons, sources say

Cleveland Cavaliers at Detroit Pistons: odds, preview, injury report, lineups, TV

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell dealing with injuries as Cavaliers open longest road trip of season

Cleveland Cavaliers get first extended look at ‘death lineup’

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell earn praise in first extended action together: What they’re saying about the Cavaliers

Darius Garland returns, shares details of scary eye injury: ‘I was ready for surgery’

Darius Garland, Donovan Mitchell shine together in 114-113 overtime win against Boston Celtics

Cavaliers author 10-0 run to erase deficit against Celtics (Video)

Watch Darius Garland sink three quick triples in return to the court for Cavaliers (Video)

Darius Garland to return to action Wednesday for Cavaliers vs. Celtics

Could Donovan Mitchell end up the greatest shooting guard in Cavs history? Browns’ post-bye aspirations: Terry’s Talkin’ (podcast)

Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Boston Celtics odds, preview, injury report, lineups, TV