Tom Brady and his Tampa Bay Buccaneers team finally bounced back by sealing a dramatic comeback victory over the Los Angeles Rams in Florida Sunday evening.

The entire team has been under pressure this season due to below-par performances and ultimately abysmal results.

But tonight Brady, who confirmed his divorce from his supermodel wife Gisele Bundchen last week, led the charge of a sensational 16-13 win over the defending Super Bowl champions.

Not only did he become the first quarterback in NFL history to throw for 100,000 yards, counting playoff games, but led a last-minute drive to snap the Bucs' three-game losing streak.

He did not hold back in his excitement at winning when walking into his post-game press conference and after slamming his hands on the table he said: 'That was awesome.

'That was f***ing awesome.'

Tom Brady and his Tampa Bay Buccaneers team finally bounced back with win Sunday evening

Brady beamed as he attended his post-game press conference after driving the Bucs to victory

It looked as though Brady and Co. were going to suffer defeat again when Scotty Miller dropped a game-winning touchdown late on.

But Brady, who has had to handle both on-field and off-field issues this season, led his 55th career game-winning drive to turn the game around. No. 55 is the most in NFL history, beating legend Peyton Manning.

The late rally was also Brady's 43rd fourth-quarter comeback, taking him level with Manning for the most ever.

The game-winning drive lasted 44 seconds, included zero timeouts and ended with Brady finding rookie tight end Cade Otton for a 1-yard touchdown pass with just nine seconds left.

Brady completed 36 of 58 passes for 280 yards as the Buccaneers won for just the second time in seven games.

Brady found rookie tight end Cade Otton for a 1-yard touchdown pass with nine seconds left

Brady runs off the field after leading the Bucs to much-needed win over LA Rams Sunday

The seven-time Super Bowl champion reached the 100,000 yards milestone with a 15-yard completion to running back Leonard Fournette in the fourth quarter.

The future Hall of Famer holds an array of NFL records, including the most completions and touchdown passes, and is one of only two starting quarterbacks to win the Super Bowl with two different teams after spending the majority of his career with the New England Patriots.

Previous performances and results raised questions as to whether Brady should have reversed his decision to retire earlier this year.

Off the field Brady and supermodel wife Gisele Bundchen, 42, confirmed divorce last week

Brady announced that he was retiring from the NFL in February, only to turn around a few weeks later and U-turn on the decision.

Last week Brady, 45, and Bundchen, 42, confirmed their divorce following weeks of speculation.

Many believed that Brady re-entering the NFL became a bone of contention for Bundchen. A source confirmed to DailyMail.com in late-September that their physical separation was not impacted by Brady's move to rejoin his beloved sport.

On October 28 Brady and Bundchen announced their divorce. The Bucs star said it had been a 'difficult' and 'painful' decision that the pair reached after 'much consideration'.

Gisele said: 'To end a marriage is never easy... we have grown apart.' She said she 'wishes the best' for Brady but confirmed the pair had 'grown apart'.

Brady and Bundchen confirmed their divorce in Instagram statements on October 28. She said her priority had 'always been' the children, but said the pair had 'grown apart'. In his statement, Brady said the decision was 'painful and difficult'

'I feel blessed for the time we had together and only wish the best for Tom always,' she said.

Both said they would continue to co-parent their two children together.' The couple are expected to share custody of their two children, Vivian, nine and Benjamin, 12. Tom also has a third son, 15-year-old son Jack with ex Bridget Moynahan.

Brady's display against the Rams sent social media wild Sunday night as the quarterback dominated the football headlines.

Fox Sports pundit Skip Bayless said on Twitter: 'Just when I thought it was impossible, Tom Brady did it AGAIN.

'I will not be surprised if Tom Brady plays a couple of more seasons.'

ESPN's Stephen A. Smith added on Twitter: 'This guy @TomBrady. He's just something special. Game over — but it isn't yet again. Pulls @Buccaneers from the dead, drives damn-near 60 yards downfield in less than a minute and pulls this out vs the @RamsNFL. #Unreal.'

Brady added postgame: 'We needed it. We got it, we fought til the end. Defense played great, we made some plays offensively. I know we left a few out there but it's a tough team.'

The Bucs now lead the NFC South after ending their miserable run and face the Seattle Seahawks at the Allianz Arena in Munich, Germany next Sunday.