Notre Dame (6-3) earned an impressive victory over previously unbeaten and 4th-ranked Clemson (8-1) on Saturday night, giving the Irish one of their best wins of the last decade.

Following the win the Irish Breakdown staff gave their immediate thoughts, but on Sunday we had a chance to take a deeper dive into the film. We broke down what we saw from the Irish offense and defense after taking a closer look at the Irish performance.

On offense, we spent a lot of time talking about the Notre Dame ground attack. We broke down the performance of the Fighting Irish line and the brilliant performance of running backs Logan Diggs, Audric Estime and Chris Tyree.

Beyond the individual and unit performances, there were plenty of things we saw from a game plan and play calling standpoint from offensive coordinator Tommy Rees that played a big role in the success of the ground attack, which we dove into.

Early on we also discussed how well the Irish wide receivers blocked in the game, and how it speaks to the players adopting the "whatever it takes" mentality. We also broke down some of the reasons for the continued struggles of the pass game.

Defensively, we spent a lot of time talking about the play of the linebackers and cornerbacks. Veteran linebackers Marist Liufau and JD Bertrand was excellent. We discussed what they did well and reasons why we believe their performance has seen a jump.

Of course, cornerback Benjamin Morrison's performance was broken down as well. We also spent plenty of time talking about the outstanding game plan from defensive coordinator Al Golden.

Irish Breakdown Fans be sure to get your Notre Dame tickets from SI Tickets HERE

Be sure to check out the Irish Breakdown message board, the Champions Lounge

Irish Breakdown Content

Notre Dame 2022 Roster

Notre Dame 2022 Schedule

Notre Dame 2023 Class Big Board

Notre Dame 2023 Commits Board - Offense

Notre Dame 2023 Commits Board - Defense

Notre Dame 2023 Scholarship Offers

Notre Dame 2024 Scholarship Offers



Ranking The 2022 Signees - Offense

Ranking The 2022 Signees - Defense

———————

Become a premium Irish Breakdown member, which grants you access to all of our premium content and our premium message board! Click on the link below for more.

BECOME A MEMBER

Be sure to stay locked into Irish Breakdown all the time!

Join the Irish Breakdown community!

Subscribe to the Irish Breakdown YouTube channel

Subscribe to the Irish Breakdown podcast on iTunes

Follow me on Twitter: @CoachD178

Follow me on Gettr: @IrishBreakdown

Like and follow Irish Breakdown on Facebook

Sign up for the FREE Irish Breakdown daily newsletter